Introduction: These terms and conditions apply to the Taxpayer/User who uses the e-Pay Tax functionality for making direct tax payment. Kindly read these terms and conditions carefully. By authorizing a payment through the e-Pay Tax functionality, it would be treated as a deemed acceptance to these terms and conditions. Income Tax Department (ITD) reserves all the rights to amend these terms and conditions at any time without giving prior notice. It is the responsibility of the Taxpayer/User to have read the terms and conditions before using the Service.
Payment under this mode is also subject to the terms and conditions of the payment gateway and of the bank providing payment gateway. Taxpayer/User is expected to read said terms and conditions.
The direct tax payment service is provided using a secure website. However, Income tax Department does not give any assurance that the information so provided online by a taxpayer/user is secured or may not be read or intercepted by a third party. Income tax Department does not accept or assume any liability in the event of such unauthorized interception, hacking or other unauthorized access to information provided by a taxpayer/user.
Income tax Department shall not be liable for any inaccuracy, error or delay in, or omission of (a) any data, information or message, or (b) the transmission or delivery of any such data, information or message; or (c) any loss or damage arising from or occasioned by any such inaccuracy, error, delay or omission, non-performance or interruption in any such data, information or message. Under no circumstances shall the Income tax Department, its employees, and its third party agents involved in processing, delivering or managing the direct tax payment services, be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special or consequential damages, or any damages whatsoever, including punitive or exemplary arising out of or in any way connected with the provision of or any inadequacy or deficiency in the provision of the Services or resulting from unauthorized access or alteration of transmissions of data or arising from suspension or termination of the Service.
The Taxpayer/User agrees that Income-tax Department or any of its employees will not be held liable by him/her for any loss or damages arising from the use of, or reliance upon the information contained on the e-Pay Tax functionality, or any failure to comply with these Terms and Conditions where such failure is due to circumstance beyond Income tax Department’s reasonable control.
The Taxpayer/User making payment through payment gateway warrants, agrees and confirms that when he/ she initiates a payment transaction and/or issues an online payment instruction and provides his/ her debit card/credit card/net banking/UPI details:
The Taxpayer/User is fully and lawfully entitled to use such debit card/credit card/net banking account/UPI for such transactions;
The Taxpayer/User is responsible to ensure that the debit card/credit card/net banking account/UPI details provided by him/ her are accurate;
The Taxpayer/User authorizes debit of nominated card/ bank account for the Payment of direct taxes by along with the applicable Fees (if any).
The Taxpayer/User is responsible to ensure that sufficient credit is available on the nominated card/ bank account at the time of making the payment
No warranty: No warranty, representation or guarantee, express or implied, is given by the Income tax Department in respect of the operation of the e-Pay Tax Functionality.
Disclaimer and Limitation of liability: Income tax Department does not accept liability for any damage, loss, cost (including legal costs), expenses, indirect losses or consequential damage of any kind which may be suffered or incurred by the Taxpayer/User from the use of this service.
Governing law: These terms and conditions are governed by the laws of India and the competent courts at Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction.
On successful payment, Challan Identification Number (CIN) will be generated against the Challan Reference Number (CRN), which will be available to taxpayer/user along with other details in the form of Challan Receipt. Subsequently, the status of the CRN will be updated as “PAID” under “Payment History” tab.
If during payment process, account of the taxpayer/user is deducted but information for successful payment is not received from the payment gateway/bank to e-Filing Portal, the Challan Receipt along with CIN will not be generated and status of such CRN will not be updated to “PAID”.
If account of the taxpayer/user is deducted but the status of CRN is not updated to “PAID”, the taxpayer/user may re-check the status of the CRN after 30 minutes as the same may get updated after response received from Payment Gateway to e-Filing Portal. In case, no such response is received during the said time, the taxpayer/user is advised to wait for one day as the e-Filing Portal will reconcile the CRN with the Bank providing Payment Gateway and update the CRN status accordingly. If status of CRN is still not updated, taxpayer/user is advised to contact his/her bank.
Once a payment is successfully made, e-Filing will not entertain any request for refund/reversal of the paid amount. Further, no charge back claims against the Income Tax Department shall be allowable to any taxpayer/user under any circumstances. The taxpayer/user is advised to make claim of such amount as tax credit during the filing of Income tax return of the relevant Assessment Year.
Any fraudulent transaction or misuse shall be dealt as per applicable laws.
I agree to the terms and conditions